# Palaeoverse Meetings 2024

## 2024-02-08

**Time:** 14:00 UTC

**Participants:**

- Lewis Jones
- Bethany Allen
- William Gearty
- Christopher Dean
- Erin Dillon
- Alessandro Chiarenza

**Topics**

- Introductions
- Packages
  - palaeoverse
    - Issues are starting to pile up, Lewis (and Chris) to get on top of some before the next meeting
    - `plot_strat`/`tax_range_strat` almost ready for incorporation -> New release should follow
  - rphylopic
    - Everything looking good, a small few tweaks underway for minor functionality improvements (e.g. image justification)
    - Cheat sheet will need updating in the near future. **@Miranta could you help with that or provide an editable version?**
  - rmacrostrat
    - Development team to meet next week (2024-02-15; 14:00 UTC)
- Website
  - New logo in preparation by Miranta, drafts to be circulated for comments from the team
  - Website updates slow, but in progress..
- GitHub
  - The move continues... the community repo is starting to take form with core documents like the code of conduct. Lewis/Chris will work on the resource repo in March.
- Funding
  - SNSF Scientific Exchange: Funded! ‚úîÔ∏èüí∞
    - This grant will help support the development of rmacrostrat and will be used for the core developers to work intensely on development in May, in Switzerland.
- Meetings
  - NAPC Workshop
    - Workshop team to meet before the end of February to start moving forward. 
  - NAPC session: everything in order, slowly getting more submissions. More expected in the next few days.
  - Lecture series
    - **Over 100 signups already! Keep pushing on social media.**
    - We are aiming to record lectures and share on YouTube, speaker permission required.
- Next meeting
  - **2024/03/07 - 14:00 UTC** 
- A.O.B.
  - Nada!
