# Palaeoverse Meetings 2025

# 2025-02-06

Time: 14:00 UTC

Participants: 
- Lewis (Agenda)
- XXX (Minutes)

Apologies:
- XXX

## Introductions
Hello, hello, hello

## Packages

### palaeoverse
#### [Active PRs](https://github.com/palaeoverse/palaeoverse/pulls)
- [tax_range_time/strat grouping](https://github.com/palaeoverse/palaeoverse/pull/122)  
- [Convert id certainty into binary vector](https://github.com/palaeoverse/palaeoverse/pull/125)

#### [Issues to resolve](https://github.com/palaeoverse/palaeoverse/issues)

### rphylopic
- Nothing of note

### rmacrostrat
- No updates on API changes yet.

### sepkoski
- Nothing of note

## Funding
### NSF/SNSF (Will) 
- Potentially problematic this year

### PAGES (Erin) 
- Group endorsements
- Event endorsements
- Workshop sponsorship

## Events
### Lecture series (Erin)
- Advertise!

### GSA workshop (Will)
- Who can attend?

## PalAss Newsletter series (Harriet)
- What to include in the series?

## Resources
### Materials  
-	Organisation logo available!

### Website (Lewis)  
-	Lewis to update website with organisation logo
-	Should we replace X/Twitter on website with Bluesky?

### Social media
- Abandon X completely?

## Projects
### Using R in palaeobiology: a review of recent developments and future directions/What has R done for palaeobiology? (Will):  
-	CRAN task view done! (https://cran.r-project.org/view=Paleontology)

### 10 rules for data cleaning (Lewis):
-	Discuss publication evaluation and how to move forward
-	Next steps?
-	Splitting the work

## Next meeting
2025-03-06, 14:00 UTC

## A.O.B
- N/A

---

# 2025-01-09

Time: 14:00 UTC

Participants: 
- Lewis (Agenda)
- Chris (Minutes)
- Miranta
- Joe
- Harry
- Ale

Apologies:
- Bethany
- Will
- Erin

## Introductions
Welcome back! Happy New Year!

## Packages

### palaeoverse
#### [Active PRs](https://github.com/palaeoverse/palaeoverse/pulls)
- [tax_range_time/strat grouping](https://github.com/palaeoverse/palaeoverse/pull/122)  
- [Convert id certainty into binary vector](https://github.com/palaeoverse/palaeoverse/pull/125)
- Aim is still to get these wrapped up by the end of January.

#### [Issues to resolve](https://github.com/palaeoverse/palaeoverse/issues)
- More additional features as opposed to bugs.
- Lewis plans to clear one or two by the end of January.

### rphylopic
- Nothing of note

### rmacrostrat
- No updates on API changes yet.

### sepkoski
- Lewis aims to put together a short article on Sepkoski's life including the package as a formal publication, potentially for OPal.

## Funding
### NSF/SNSF (Will) 
- Applying for a sizable 2-3 year grant to run workshops and further develop open science resources in palaeontology (https://new.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/geo-ose-geosciences-open-science-ecosystem/nsf25-506/solicitation)
- The larger grant would be supporting 1-2 postdocs who would work with OPal/Palaeoverse.

### PAGES (Erin) 
- Group endorsements
- Event endorsements
- Workshop sponsorship
- More details from Erin forthcoming after her and Lewis figure out potential commitments.

## Events
### Lecture series (Erin)
- Settling in to ~35 attendees each week
- Great lineup of upcoming speakers, maybe advertise longer list in January?

### GSA workshop (Will)
- Finally officially approved!
- Looks like we will be able to get some funding (~$1000) for speaker travel, although specifics are still being decided
- More details from Will in the future.
- Will start putting items together this month.

### Greenman Festival Outreach (Chris)
- Nothing to report

## PalAss Newsletter series (Harriet)
- Palaeoverse to do a series in the PalAss newsletter over the next couple of issues.
- Similar to the 'R for Palaeobiologists' series.
- Next issue, aim to write an introduction piece about what we do, highlighting some major things that we have already, e.g. CRAN taskview, Palaeoverse, rmacrostrat, rphylopic etc etc.
- Would need to be completed this month. Deadline is Feb 3rd, but can potentially be pushed a week or so.
- Aim for two A4 pages of non-dense text (approx. 1000 words max).
- Can also use as a space to call for contributions from the community.
- Joint written piece in a google doc.
- Harriet to lead, but open call for contributions.

## Resources
### Materials  
-	Miranta working on organisation logo. Aim to get done by the deadline for the PalAss newsletter.
-	Cheat sheets ready. Should be able to c/p into google slides templates. Miranta to put into the Resources folder in the Palaeoverse google drive. 

### Website (Lewis)  
-	A few bits to be fixed. Lewis will make all cards hyperlinks (will also fix cards being too skinny on mobile)
-	CRAN Task View to be linked to. 

## Projects
### Using R in palaeobiology: a review of recent developments and future directions/What has R done for palaeobiology? (Will):  
-	CRAN task view done! (https://cran.r-project.org/view=Paleontology)
-	Will will work on an outline and then team work will begin ~February. Waiting for '10 Rules' paper to be finished.

### 10 rules for data cleaning (Lewis):
-	REMINDER: Finish drafting rules and evaluating papers by the 24th January.
-	Draft includes your work to have been reviewed by your assigned editor, so please leave some additional time for them to accomplish this.
-	Chris highlighted that if Question 2 (Has the data been cleaned?) is answered "no", then Question 3 (Has the workflow been documented?) would inherently have to be "no" as the data has not been cleaned, and therefore cannot have a workflow. This has now been clarified that any data processing, including discussion of filtering, counts as a workflow, and thus Question 3 can be answered "yes" even if Question 2 is answered "no".

## Next meeting
2025-02-06, 14:00 UTC

## A.O.B
- N/A

